---
title: "MPRNet: Multi-scale Pointwise Regression Network for Crowd Counting and Localization"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-08-03-2
excerpt: 'This paper proposes the MPRNet for Crowd counting.'
date: 2024-08-03
venue: 'ICIC 2024'
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-97-5615-5_15'
citation: 'Jia, C., Cheng, Z., Leng, Y., Wang, J., Tang, Y. (2024). MPRNet: Multi-scale Pointwise Regression Network for Crowd Counting and Localization. In: Huang, DS., Pan, Y., Guo, J. (eds) Advanced Intelligent Computing Technology and Applications. ICIC 2024. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 14873. Springer, Singapore. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-97-5615-5_15'
---

Crowd counting is a sub-problem within crowd analysis, where the prevailing methods involve utilizing density maps to estimate the probability distribution of crowd, and subsequently infer the total number of people by integrating across the density map. However, this approach heavily relies on Gaussian kernels for generating density maps. Furthermore, due to the unknown size of targets, it’s challenging to pre-set Gaussian kernel parameters properly, leading to inevitable distributional errors on density maps.Moreover, the substantial scale variation among targets places even higher requirements on feature extraction capability for the models. To address these challenges, we propose the Multi-scale Pointwise Regression Network (MPRNet), which uses pointwise maps as ground truth labels and therefore avoids distributional errors when generating density maps. In MPRNet, we introduce a multi-scale feature extractor (MFE) and a feature fusion algorithm of regional maximum substitution (RMS) to enhance feature extraction and fusion capabilities. Additionally, we employ the Hungarian algorithm for one-to-one matching of predicted and ground truth points, ensuring high quality location information in pointwise maps. In short, MPRNet not only obtains the total number of crowds, but also precisely localizes each target. Experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of our model on two public datasets, SHHA and JHU-CROWD++, showcasing outstanding performance.